.\"	Copyright (c) 2010,2011 Yahoo! Inc.
.\"
.\"	This manual page was originally written by Jan Schaumann
.\"	<jschauma@yahoo-inc.com> in September 2010.
.Dd February 09, 2011
.Dt SIGSH 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sigsh
.Nd a signature verifying shell
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar certs
.Op Fl x
.Op Fl p Ar prog
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a non-interactive, signature requiring and verifying command
interpreter.
More accurately, it is a signature verification wrapper around a given
shell.
It reads input in PKCS#7 format from standard in, verifies the signature
and, if the signature matches, pipes the decoded input into the command
interpreter.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Nm
supports the following flags:
.Bl -tag -width s_shell_
.It Fl c Ar certs
Read ceritificates to trust from this file.
.It Fl p Ar prog
Pipe commands into this interpreter instead of the default
.Xr bash 1 .
.It Fl x
Enable debugging (mnemomic 'xtrace', as
.Xr sh 1 Ns ).
.El
.Sh DETAILS
Conceptually similar to Microsoft Windows' Powershell ExecutionPolicy (as
set to 'allSigned'),
.Nm
will only execute any commands from the input if a valid signature is
found.
This allows, for example, a headless user to be able to run any arbitrary
set of commands (if provided by trusted entities) without having to give
it a fully interactive login shell.
By specifying a different interpreter to which to pass the verified input,
.Nm
can be used for almost anything requiring input verification so long as
the tool invoked accepts input from standard in.
.Pp
.Nm
is intentionally kept as simple as possible and does not provide for a
whole lot of customization via either a startup file or any command-line
options.
.Sh INPUT
.Nm
reads input from standard in.
That is, unlike other interactive command interpreters, it cannot be
invoked from the terminal to read commands one at a time.
.Nm
relies on (and shells out to)
.Xr openssl 1
for signature verification.
In particular, it expects input to be in PKCS#7 format, containing signed
data to be passed to the command interpreter.
In order to verify the signature,
.Nm
needs to have available a matching certificate (see section FILES).
.Sh OUTPUT
By default,
.Nm
does not generate any output itself.
If input verification fails, it will return an error code (see section
EXIT STATUS) and print a brief message to STDERR; otherwise, it will pipe
the validated input to the given command interpreter, letting it generate
any and all output (both to standard out and standard error).
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following examples illustrate possible usage of this tool.
.Pp
To execute the commands in the file 'script.bash':
.Bd -literal -offset indent
openssl smime -sign -nodetach -signer mycert.pem -inkey mykey.pem \\
    -in script.bash -outform pem | sigsh
.Ed
.Pp
To execute the perl code contained in the signed PKCS#7 file 'code.pem':
.Bd -literal -offset indent
sigsh -p /usr/bin/perl < code.pem
.Ed
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
will exit with the rather unusual return code of 127 if verification of
the input fails (for whatever reason).
Otherwise, it will return the exit code of the interpreter invoked.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Nm
clears the environment before passing the verified input on to the
interpreter.
Therefor, the input must make sure to explicitly set any variables it may
rely on.
.Sh FILES
.Nm
uses the following files:
.Bl -tag -width _etc_sigsh_pem_
.It /etc/sigsh.pem
The file containing all certificates that
.Nm
will verify the input against.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr openssl 1 ,
.Xr smime 1
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was originally written by
.An Jan Schaumann
.Aq jschauma@yahoo-inc.com
in September 2010.
.Sh BUGS
Please report bugs and feature requests to the author.
